Description of SM-2 algorithm
The first computer-based SuperMemo algorithm (SM-2)[10] tracks three properties for each card being studied:

The repetition number n, which is the number of times the card has been successfully recalled (meaning it was given a grade ≥ 3) in a row since the last time it was not.
The easiness factor EF, which loosely indicates how "easy" the card is (more precisely, it determines how quickly the inter-repetition interval grows). The initial value of EF is 2.5.
The inter-repetition interval I, which is the length of time (in days) SuperMemo will wait after the previous review before asking the user to review the card again.
Every time the user starts a review session, SuperMemo provides the user with the cards whose last review occurred at least I days ago. For each review, the user tries to recall the information and (after being shown the correct answer) specifies a grade q (from 0 to 5) indicating a self-evaluation the quality of their response, with each grade having the following meaning:

0: "Total blackout", complete failure to recall the information.
1: Incorrect response, but upon seeing the correct answer it felt familiar.
2: Incorrect response, but upon seeing the correct answer it seemed easy to remember.
3: Correct response, but required significant effort to recall.
4: Correct response, after some hesitation.
5: Correct response with perfect recall.
The following algorithm[14] is then applied to update the three variables associated with the card:

algorithm SM-2 is
    input:  user grade q
            repetition number n
            easiness factor EF
            interval I
    output: updated values of n, EF, and I

    if q ≥ 3 (correct response) then
        if n = 0 then
            I ← 1
        else if n = 1 then
            I ← 6
        else
            I ← round(I × EF)
        end if
        increment n
    else (incorrect response)
        n ← 0
        I ← 1
    end if
    
    EF ← EF + (0.1 − (5 − q) × (0.08 + (5 − q) × 0.02))
    if EF < 1.3 then
        EF ← 1.3
    end if
    
    return (n, EF, I)
After all scheduled reviews are complete, SuperMemo asks the user to re-review any cards they marked with a grade less than 4 repeatedly until they give a grade ≥ 4.